K8s Orion: LDAP support (#2396)
RedisLabs/redislabs-docs: content/kubernetes/security/ldap.md

---
Title: Enable LDAP authentication
linkTitle: Enable LDAP
description: Enable LDAP authentication for Redis Enterprise for Kubernetes. 
weight: 95
alwaysopen: false
categories: ["Platforms"]
aliases: [ 
  /kubernetes/security/ldap.md,
  /kubernetes/security/ldap/,
]
---

## LDAP support for Redis Enterprise Software

Redis Enterprise Software supports LDAP authentication and authorization through [role-based access controls]({{<relref "/rs/security/access-control/">}}) (RBAC). You can map LDAP groups to {[Redis Enterprise roles]({{<relref "/rs/security/access-control/create-roles.md">}}) to control access to your database and the [admin console]({{<relref "/rs/security/admin-console-security/">}}). For more details on how LDAP works with Redis Enterprise, see [LDAP authentication]({{<relref "/rs/security/access-control/ldap/">}}).

Redis Enterprise for Kubernetes supports enabling and configuring LDAP authentication using the RedisEnterpriseCluster (REC) custom resource. Currently, the Redis Enterprise cluster (REC) only supports configuration related to the LDAP server, such as server addresses, connection details, credentials, and query configuration.

> To [map LDAP groups to Redis Enterprise access control roles]({{<relref "/rs/security/access-control/ldap/enable-role-based-ldap.md">}}), you'll need to use the Redis Enterprise [API]({{<relref "/rs/references/rest-api/requests/ldap_mappings/">}}) or [admin console]({{<relref "/rs/security/access-control/ldap/enable-role-based-ldap.md">}}).

Reviewer: Consider linking to topics from instruction content itself. I recommend placing them at the end for the paragraph to access more information.

> ## Enable LDAP for Redis Enterprise cluster (REC)

Reviewer: Consider avoiding acronyms in headings for simpler lining. Use either the acronym that is spelled out in the first paragraph or full name.

> Use the `.spec.ldap` field in the `RedisEnterpriseCluster` custom resource to enable LDAP for Redis Enterprise cluster (REC).

Reviewer: Consider leading with a goal: "To enable..., use..."

> The following `RedisEnterpriseCluster` example resource enables a basic LDAP configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
"Follow this example to enable a basic LDAP configuration:"
```

Author: I'm not sure I want to suggest they use they verbatim. It's just an example of the syntax but they need to substitute their own values for some of the lines. In the steps below we lay out which values they need to supply.

```yaml
apiVersion: app.redislabs.com/v1
kind: RedisEnterpriseCluster
metadata:
  name: rec
spec:
  nodes: 3
  ldap:
    protocol: LDAP
    servers:
    - host: openldap.openldap.svc,
      port: 389
    bindCredentialsSecretName: ldap-bind-credentials
    cacheTTLSeconds: 600
    enabledForControlPlane: true
    enabledForDataPlane: true
    authenticationQuery:
      template: cn=%u,ou=default,dc=example,dc=org
    authorizationQuery:
      attribute: memberOf
```

> Refer to the `RedisEnterpriseCluster` [API reference](../redis_enterprise_cluster_api.md#ldapspec) for full details on the available fields.

Author: ```suggestion
Refer to the `RedisEnterpriseCluster` [API reference](https://github.com/RedisLabs/redis-enterprise-k8s-docs/blob/master/redis_enterprise_cluster_api.md#ldapspec) for full details on the available fields.
```

> Refer to the `RedisEnterpriseCluster` [API reference](../redis_enterprise_cluster_api.md#ldapspec) for full details on the available fields.

Reviewer: Consider flipping the order: "To learn more about..., see..."

### Bind credentials

> For LDAP servers that require authentication for client queries, the bind credentials can be stored in a secret and referenced in the `RedisEnterpriseCluster` custom resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For LDAP servers that require authentication for client queries, store the bind credentials in a secret and reference them in the `RedisEnterpriseCluster` custom resource.
```

1. Create a secret to store the bind credentials.
    
    ```sh
    kubectl -n <my-rec-namespace> create secret generic ldap-bind-credentials \
        --from-literal=dn='<cn=admin,dc=example,dc=org>' \

>         --from-literal=password=<adminpassword>

Author: Yes. Sometimes I'm unsure what's example terminology and what's not. I prefer to use placeholders to make it clear which values the user must supply and which they can copy and paste.

    ```
    The secret must:

>     - reside within the same namespace as the `RedisEnterpriseCluster` custom resource

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Reside within the same namespace as the `RedisEnterpriseCluster` custom resource.
```

>     - include a `dn` key with the Distinguish Name of the user performing the query

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Include a Distinguish Name (`dn`) key of the user performing the query.
```

>     - include a `password` key with the bind password

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Include a `password` key with the bind password.
```

    Replace the `<placeholders>` in the command above with your own values.

1. Reference the secret name in the `.spec.ldap.bindCredentialsSecretName` field of the `RedisEnterpriseCluster` custom resource.

    ```yaml
    spec:
      ldap:

>         bindCredentialsSecretName: ldap-bind-credentials

Author: Do the secrets need to have a unique name?

>         bindCredentialsSecretName: ldap-bind-credentials

Reviewer 2: Yes, they need to be unique within their namespace. But that's completely standard for Kubernetes API objects, not something we should mention IMO.

>         bindCredentialsSecretName: ldap-bind-credentials

Reviewer 2: Maybe we can write the yaml snippet like this, and note the user to replace the placeholder:
```yaml
spec:
  ldap:
    bindCredentialsSecretName: <secret-name>
```

    ```

### LDAPS or STARTTLS protocols

In addition to plain LDAP protocol, Redis Enterprise Software also supports LDAPS and STARTTLS protocols for secure communication with the LDAP server.

Edit the `spec.protocol` field in the `RedisEnterpriseCluster` custom resource:

#### Enable `LDAPS`

  ```yaml
      spec:
        protocol: LDAPS
  ```

>   Default port is 636 if left unspecified.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Default port: 636
```

#### Enable `STARTTLS`

  ```yaml
      spec:
        protocol: STARTTLS
  ```

>   Default port is 389 if left unspecified.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Default port: 389
```

### CA certificate

To use a custom CA certificate for validating the LDAP server certificate, store the CA certificate in a secret and reference the secret in the `RedisEnterpriseCluster` custom resource.

1. Create a secret to hold the CA certificate.

    ```sh
    kubectl -n <my-rec-namespace> create secret generic ldap-ca-certificate --from-file=cert=cacert.pem
    ```

    The secret must:

>     - reside within the same namespace as the `RedisEnterpriseCluster` custom resource

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Reside within the same namespace as the `RedisEnterpriseCluster` custom resource.
```

>     - include a `cert` key with a PEM-encoded CA certificate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Include a `cert` key with a PEM-encoded CA certificate.
```

    Replace the `<placeholders>` in the command above with your own values.

1. Reference the secret name in the `spec.ldap.caCertificateSecretName` field of the `RedisEnterpriseCluster` custom resource.

    ```yaml
    spec:
      ldap:

>         caCertificateSecretName: ldap-ca-certificate

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        caCertificateSecretName: <secret-name>
```

    ```

### Client certificates

To use an LDAP client certificate, store the certificate in a secret and reference the secret in the `RedisEnterpriseCluster` custom resource.

1. Create a secret to hold the client certificate.

    ```sh
    kubectl -n <my-rec-namespace> create secret generic ldap-client-certificate \
      --from-literal=name=ldap_client \
      --from-file=certificate=cert.pem \
      --from-file=key=key.pem
    ```

    The secret must:
    - reside within the same namespace as the `RedisEnterpriseCluster` custom resource
    - include a `certificate` key for the public key
    - include a `key` key for the private key
    - include a `name` key explicitly set to `ldap_client`

    Replace the `<placeholders>` in the command above with your own values.

1. Reference the secret name in the `.spec.certificates.ldapClientCertificateSecretName` field of the `RedisEnterpriseCluster` custom resource.

    ```yaml
    spec:
      certificates:
        ldapClientCertificateSecretName: ldap-client-certificate
    ```

## Known limitations

> Redis Enterprise Software can't resolve DNS names with a `.local` suffix.

Reviewer: Consider using italics for emphasis, reserving bold for UI names.

>   If your LDAP server is in the same Kubernetes cluster and exposed via a Service object, **Avoid** addresses such as `openldap.openldap.svc.cluster.local`. Instead, **use short-form addresses such as `openldap.openldap.svc`**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  If your LDAP server is in the same Kubernetes cluster and exposed via a Service object, **avoid** addresses such as `openldap.openldap.svc.cluster.local`. Instead, **use short-form addresses** such as `openldap.openldap.svc`.
```

## Enable LDAP 

To enable LDAP for your REC, use the `.spec.ldap` field in the `RedisEnterpriseCluster` custom resource.

The following `RedisEnterpriseCluster` example resource enables a basic LDAP configuration:

```yaml
apiVersion: app.redislabs.com/v1
kind: RedisEnterpriseCluster
metadata:
  name: rec
spec:
  nodes: 3
  ldap:
    protocol: LDAP
    servers:
    - host: openldap.openldap.svc
      port: 389
    bindCredentialsSecretName: ldap-bind-credentials
    cacheTTLSeconds: 600
    enabledForControlPlane: true
    enabledForDataPlane: true
    authenticationQuery:
      template: cn=%u,ou=default,dc=example,dc=org
    authorizationQuery:
      attribute: memberOf
```

Refer to the `RedisEnterpriseCluster` [API reference](https://github.com/RedisLabs/redis-enterprise-k8s-docs/blob/master/redis_enterprise_cluster_api.md#ldapspec) for full details on the available fields.

### Bind credentials

For LDAP servers that require authentication for client queries, store the bind credentials in a secret and reference them in the `RedisEnterpriseCluster` custom resource.

1. Create a secret to store the bind credentials.
    
    ```sh

>     kubectl -n <my-rec-namespace> create secret generic ldap-bind-credentials \

Reviewer 2: - `<rec-namespace>` instead of `<my-rec-namespace>` to avoid example terminology.
- `ldap-bind-credentials` is just an example secret name, we shouldn't incorrectly imply that users must use this name.
```suggestion
    kubectl -n <rec-namespace> create secret generic <secret-name> \
```

        --from-literal=dn='<disinguished-name>' \
        --from-literal=password=<password>
    ```
    The secret must:
    - Reside within the same namespace as the `RedisEnterpriseCluster` custom resource.
    - Include a `dn` key with the distinguished name for the user performing the query (such as `cn=admin,dc=example,dc=org`).
    - Include a `password` key with the bind password.

    Replace the `<placeholders>` in the command above with your own values.

1. Reference the secret name in the `.spec.ldap.bindCredentialsSecretName` field of the `RedisEnterpriseCluster` custom resource.

    ```yaml
    spec:
      ldap:
        bindCredentialsSecretName: ldap-bind-credentials
    ```

### LDAPS or STARTTLS protocols

In addition to plain LDAP protocol, Redis Enterprise Software also supports LDAPS and STARTTLS protocols for secure communication with the LDAP server.

> To enable one of these protocols, edit the `spec.protocol` field in the `RedisEnterpriseCluster` custom resource:

Reviewer 2: Incorrect field path (sorry, my mistake in the original README):
```suggestion
To enable one of these protocols, edit the `spec.ldap.protocol` field in the `RedisEnterpriseCluster` custom resource:
```

#### Enable `LDAPS`

  ```yaml

>       spec:
>         protocol: LDAPS

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      spec:
        ldap:
          protocol: LDAPS
```

  ```

  Default port: 636

#### Enable `STARTTLS`

  ```yaml

>       spec:
>         protocol: STARTTLS

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      spec:
        ldap:
          protocol: STARTTLS
```

  ```

  Default port: 389

### CA certificate

To use a custom CA certificate for validating the LDAP server certificate, store the CA certificate in a secret and reference the secret in the `RedisEnterpriseCluster` custom resource.

1. Create a secret to hold the CA certificate.

    ```sh

>     kubectl -n <my-rec-namespace> create secret generic ldap-ca-certificate \

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    kubectl -n <rec-namespace> create secret generic <secret-name> \
```

        --from-file=cert=<ca-cert>.pem
    ```

    The secret must:
    - Reside within the same namespace as the `RedisEnterpriseCluster` custom resource.
    - Include a `cert` key with a PEM-encoded CA certificate (such as `cacert.pem`).

    Replace the `<placeholders>` in the command above with your own values.

1. Reference the secret name in the `spec.ldap.caCertificateSecretName` field of the `RedisEnterpriseCluster` custom resource.

    ```yaml
    spec:
      ldap:
        caCertificateSecretName: ldap-ca-certificate
    ```

### Client certificates

To use an LDAP client certificate, store the certificate in a secret and reference the secret in the `RedisEnterpriseCluster` custom resource.

1. Create a secret to hold the client certificate.

    ```sh

>     kubectl -n <my-rec-namespace> create secret generic ldap-client-certificate \

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    kubectl -n <rec-namespace> create secret generic <secret-name> \
```

>       --from-literal=name=<ldap_client \

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      --from-literal=name=ldap_client \
```

>       --from-file=certificate=<client-cert>.pem \
>       --from-file=key=<private-key>.pem

Reviewer 2: There's no necessity that the files name will have a .pem suffix, although typically they would. Nevertheless, consider leaving the .pem suffix to the examples below.

```suggestion
      --from-file=certificate=<client-cert-file> \
      --from-file=key=<private-key-file>
```

    ```

    The secret must:
    - Reside within the same namespace as the `RedisEnterpriseCluster` custom resource.
    - Include a `name` key explicitly set to `ldap_client`.
    - Include a `certificate` key for the public key (such as `cert.pem`).
    - Include a `key` key for the private key (such as `key.pem`).
    

    Replace the `<placeholders>` in the command above with your own values.

1. Reference the secret name in the `.spec.certificates.ldapClientCertificateSecretName` field of the `RedisEnterpriseCluster` custom resource, substituting your own values for `<placeholders>`.

    ```yaml
    spec:
      certificates:

>         ldapClientCertificateSecretName: ldap-client-certificate

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        ldapClientCertificateSecretName: <secret-name>
```
